To whom it may concern,

I am a physical chemist by training with a background in scientific computing, specializing on biological systems. Specifically, I have integrated principles from chemistry, physics, and statistics to investigate diverse phenomena within bacterial life, such as regulatory mechanisms for stress response and the interplay between the transcriptome and proteome. In my career, I have achieved proficiency in a wide array of computational tools to design and implement analytical pipelines within multiple computing environments (HPC, AWS, Docker, Conda) on various operating systems (Linux, MacOS, Windows) leveraging both custom and pre-built software with standard coding languages (Python, R, Bash, etc). Additionally, I have developed skills in designing, managing, and contributing to exploratory multi-year projects that require flexibility, self-assessment, reproducibility, and publication-level documentation. I have extensive experience working in highly collaborative environments, both domestically and internationally, and I am well practiced in presenting technical material to audiences of varying subject-matter expertise.

My former experience has given me a deep appreciation for scientific innovation and the need for more efficient and accelerated methods to translate innovation from the laboratory into real-world impact. I view science as a tool I can use to make a real difference in another person's life. I am driven by this and strive to find a company in which I can make that a reality. I would describe myself as a motivated, adaptable, team player, who looks to contribute however I can. I appreciate the Alaka`ina Foundation's commitment to serve their clients to provide solutions for their communities, One Team with One Mission.

As a computational chemist and biophysicist, I would bring a deep understanding of biological research complemented by hands-on experience in scientific computing across diverse computing systems and environments. I have significant experience with of Python and am proficient in R as tools to solve complex scientific questions including developing custom code for simulation and data analysis. Throughout my career I have worked with many data sets of varying types and sizes, and I am confident in my capacity to adapt, manage, and utilize new data sets to address challenging questions, regardless of data size. Most relevant to the position is my previous experience with NGS sequencing data from varying methodologies (Illumina, PacBio, and ONT), where I integrated various software and algorithms to compare and predict complex relationships between the data sets. Additionally, I am confident I can work with diverse groups having collaborated with scientists from different technical and cultural backgrounds. My ability to achieve and communicate scientific discovery is exemplified through my publication and presentation record.

In summary, I believe my problem-solving abilities, commitment to learning and integrating novel techniques across disciplines, and aptitude for collaboration make me an ideal candidate for the Genomics Computational Systems Biologist position at the Alaka`ina Foundation. I am excited at the opportunity to join the Alaka`ina Foundation team and contribute to its vision with my computational skills. Thank you for considering my application. I would welcome the opportunity to discuss my qualifications further.

I am typically available for contact M-F between the hours of 9am-6pm, and if offered the position can begin immediately.


Kindly,
   Troy A Brier
